Add Bluetooth serial port explainer. (#150)
WICG/serial: EXPLAINER_BLUETOOTH.md

   interface.

The Web Serial API can currently utilize Bluetooth serial ports, but with a few
caveats:

1. The Bluetooth device must first be bonded (often called "paired") before
   executing `SerialPort.requestPort()`. This is usually done manually via the
   system’s Bluetooth control/settings panel. This is not implemented on all
   platforms.
2. A Bluetooth serial port may only be accessed if the operating system maps the
   port to a device node. (For example, a POSIX device file or Windows COM
   port.)

## What does this proposal add?

This proposal adds the ability for the browser to:

1. Enumerate bonded Bluetooth devices that expose a serial interface using the
   standard Serial Port service.
2. Communicate with the serial interface even if the operating system has not
   created a device node for that port.
3. Communicate with a non-Serial Port service that exposes a serial interface.
   See [Non-standard Service Class ID’s](#non-standard-service-class-ids) below.

## Why not enhance Web Bluetooth?

The intent is to avoid the tendency to backfill Bluetooth Classic support into
[Web Bluetooth](https://webbluetoothcg.github.io/web-bluetooth/). If support for

> one profile were to land in Web Bluetooth, this might entice developers to
> request the addition of other classic profiles to Web Bluetooth. Support for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one profile were to land in Web Bluetooth, developers might
request the addition of other classic profiles to Web Bluetooth. Support for
```

Author: done.

> Bluetooth serial interfaces is seen as a special case as It has come numerous
> times in the form of developer requests needing basic serial port support with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bluetooth serial interfaces is seen as a special case as it is so frequently
requested by developers needing basic serial port support with
```

Author: done.

no simple alternative in BLE.

In short, this feature is a natural extension to the Web Serial API, and will
minimize requests for other classic profiles.

## Support for unmapped serial ports

When bonding to a Bluetooth device that exposes a serial port using the standard
Serial Port service, some operating systems will automatically create device
nodes representing the serial interface. Windows creates a pair of COM ports,
and macOS a pair of filesystem nodes in /dev (i.e. `/dev/cu.*` and
`/dev/tty.*`).

This proposal will allow support for Bluetooth services that implement the
Serial Port Profile even if the operating system does not create device nodes
for Bluetooth serial ports.

## Non-standard Service Class ID’s

> Devices supporting a Serial Port Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Devices supporting the Serial Port Profile
```

Author: done.

([SPP](https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/specs/serial-port-profile-1-2/))
often offer this via the standard Serial Port service (UUID: `0x1101`).
Operating systems may create devices or ports mapped to this Bluetooth service
during the bonding process. On macOS and Windows, two device nodes are created
for each bonded device that exposes a serial port using the standard Serial Port
service.

This proposal recommends supporting **any** service that implements the Serial
Port Profile, regardless of whether the service is a standard Serial Port
service or is automatically mapped by the operating system. By default
`Serial.requestPort()` will only include Bluetooth serial ports exposed by
devices with a standard Serial Port service. A new service UUID filter option is
added to `Serial.requestPort()` to enable requesting serial ports for other
services.

## Potential specification changes

### Port Selection

[`Serial.requestPort()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Serial/requestPort),
with no filters parameter, will pass through:

1. Non-Bluetooth serial ports (wired, virtual, etc.)

> 2. Mapped Bluetooth serial ports.

Reviewer: It's not clear at this point what "mapped" means. I think you mean bonded Bluetooth devices where the operating system has automatically created device nodes for the Serial Port service.

Author: I discuss this tangentially in "Support for unmapped serial ports" above (currently line 66). I'm using "mapped" to describe the creation of one (or more) serial device nodes existing for a single Bluetooth serial port. They can be automatically created (which Windows and macOS do), or manually (like using `rfcomm` on Linux). Do you think "map" is a good term for this, or is there a better one?

Reviewer: I think I withdraw the question because I just didn't read the section heading above carefully enough.

3. Any unmapped serial port provided by a standard Bluetooth SerialPort service.
   These will appear on operating systems without automatic port mapping.

### Service Class ID Filtering

Serial ports for services other than the SerialPort service (UUID: `0x1101`)

>  can be requested, but will be omitted unless explicitly filtered for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be requested, but will be omitted unless explicitly filtered for.
```

Author: done.

`Serial.requestPort()` will be extended to add new filtering abilities for
bonded Bluetooth devices with services implementing the SPP profile. At present
`requestPort()` accepts a single optional
[filters parameter](https://wicg.github.io/serial/#dom-serialportrequestoptions-filters)
– a sequence of
[`SerialPortFilter`](https://wicg.github.io/serial/#serialportfilter-dictionary)
instances with the following two members:

1. `usbVendorId`
2. `usbProductId`

To provide the ability to filter Bluetooth serial ports filters will need to
support filtering for a Bluetooth service identified by a service class ID. This
will be implemented by adding the following SerialPortFilter member:

1. `bluetoothServiceClassId`

> Browser vendors may provide UI for the user to select certain device types such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations may provide UI for the user to select certain device types such
```

Author: done

as Wired, Bluetooth. This is an implementation issue left to browser vendors.

### Serial Port Info

Currently
[`SerialPort.getInfo()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SerialPort/getInfo)
returns a [`SerialPortInfo`](https://wicg.github.io/serial/#serialportinfo-dictionary)
dictionary containing usbVendorId and usbProductId.

SerialPortInfo will be extended by adding the following member:

1. `bluetoothServiceClassId` (string) – The Bluetooth service class UUID. This may

>    be either a 16 or 128 bit UUID.

Reviewer: We should probably normalize this to the 128-bit UUID form as Web Bluetooth does.

Author: done.
